docs/announcement-v2.4.x.md, before:

# Claude Self-Reflect v2.4.x: Major Improvements

We're excited to announce the v2.4.x series of Claude Self-Reflect, bringing significant improvements to setup, search functionality, and overall user experience.

## 🐳 Docker-Only Setup (v2.4.0+)

The biggest change in v2.4.x is our move to a **completely Docker-based setup**. This eliminates all Python environment issues and makes installation truly seamless.

### What's New:
- **Zero Python Issues**: Everything runs in Docker containers
- **5-Minute Setup**: Just run `claude-self-reflect setup` 
- **Automatic Everything**: Docker Compose handles all services
- **Built-in Health Checks**: Automatic recovery from failures
- **Persistent Data**: Named volumes ensure your data is safe

### Why This Matters:
No more:
- Virtual environment conflicts
- Python version mismatches  
- Dependency installation failures
- "Works on my machine" problems

## 🔍 Project-Scoped Search (v2.4.3)

**⚠️ Breaking Change**: Search behavior has fundamentally changed to be more intuitive and performant.

### The Change:
- **Before**: Searches across ALL projects by default
- **Now**: Searches only your current project by default
- **Cross-project**: Requires explicit request

### Benefits:
1. **Focused Results**: No more sifting through unrelated conversations
2. **100ms Faster**: Single-collection search is significantly quicker
3. **Natural Isolation**: Work and personal projects stay separate
4. **Privacy**: Conversations from different contexts don't mix

### How to Use:
```bash
# Default: Current project only
"What did we discuss about authentication?"

# Search all projects (old behavior)
"Search all projects for authentication patterns"

# Search specific project
"Find Docker setup in claude-self-reflect project"
```

### Migration Guide:
If you're upgrading from v2.4.2 or earlier:
1. Your conversations remain fully searchable
2. Default searches now return project-specific results
3. Add "all projects" to queries for cross-project search
4. See [Project-Scoped Search Guide](project-scoped-search.md) for details

## 🚀 Real-Time Import Watcher

New in v2.4.x: Conversations are imported automatically every 60 seconds.

- No manual imports needed
- Runs quietly in the background
- Handles both local and cloud embeddings
- Automatically recovers from errors

## 🔒 Privacy-First Local Embeddings

Starting with v2.3.7, we default to **100% local embeddings**:

- Your conversations never leave your machine
- No API keys required for basic functionality
- FastEmbed with sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2
- Optional cloud mode available for enhanced accuracy

## 🛠️ Enhanced Reliability

### Improved Error Handling:
- Exponential backoff for API calls
- Automatic retry with smart delays
- Better error messages and recovery
- Health checks for all services

### Data Safety:
- Docker volumes persist across updates
- Automatic backups before migrations
- Safe rollback procedures
- Data integrity validation

## 📊 Performance Improvements

- **Search Speed**: 100ms faster with project scoping
- **Import Speed**: Streaming imports handle large files efficiently
- **Memory Usage**: Optimized for conversations with 100k+ messages
- **Startup Time**: Docker Compose parallelizes service initialization

## 🎯 What's Next

We're actively working on:
- Selective project import (#14)
- Enhanced search UI
- Performance analytics dashboard
- Multi-language support

## 💬 We Want Your Feedback

These changes represent our vision for making Claude Self-Reflect more intuitive and reliable. We'd love to hear:

1. How has the Docker setup improved your experience?
2. Is project-scoped search helpful or disruptive?
3. What features would you like to see next?
4. Any issues or edge cases we should address?

Join the discussion in our [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/ramakay/claude-self-reflect/discussions) or open an issue.

## 🙏 Thank You

To our growing community of contributors and users - thank you for your feedback, bug reports, and patience as we improve Claude Self-Reflect. Special thanks to:

- [@TheGordon](https://github.com/TheGordon) - Timestamp parsing fix and project import feature request
- [@akamalov](https://github.com/akamalov) - Ubuntu WSL bug identification
- [@kylesnowschwartz](https://github.com/kylesnowschwartz) - Comprehensive security review

Your input directly shapes the future of this project.

---

**Ready to upgrade?** 

```bash
npm update -g claude-self-reflect
claude-self-reflect setup
```

The future of conversation memory is here, and it's more powerful than ever.

Commit message:

docs: update v2.4.x announcement with v2.4.7 local mode fix

docs/announcement-v2.4.x.md, after:

# Claude Self-Reflect v2.4.x: Major Improvements

We're excited to announce the v2.4.x series of Claude Self-Reflect, bringing significant improvements to setup, search functionality, and overall user experience.

## 🐳 Docker-Only Setup (v2.4.0+)

The biggest change in v2.4.x is our move to a **completely Docker-based setup**. This eliminates all Python environment issues and makes installation truly seamless.

### What's New:
- **Zero Python Issues**: Everything runs in Docker containers
- **5-Minute Setup**: Just run `claude-self-reflect setup` 
- **Automatic Everything**: Docker Compose handles all services
- **Built-in Health Checks**: Automatic recovery from failures
- **Persistent Data**: Named volumes ensure your data is safe

### Why This Matters:
No more:
- Virtual environment conflicts
- Python version mismatches  
- Dependency installation failures
- "Works on my machine" problems

## 🔍 Project-Scoped Search (v2.4.3)

**⚠️ Breaking Change**: Search behavior has fundamentally changed to be more intuitive and performant.

### The Change:
- **Before**: Searches across ALL projects by default
- **Now**: Searches only your current project by default
- **Cross-project**: Requires explicit request

### Benefits:
1. **Focused Results**: No more sifting through unrelated conversations
2. **100ms Faster**: Single-collection search is significantly quicker
3. **Natural Isolation**: Work and personal projects stay separate
4. **Privacy**: Conversations from different contexts don't mix

### How to Use:
```bash
# Default: Current project only
"What did we discuss about authentication?"

# Search all projects (old behavior)
"Search all projects for authentication patterns"

# Search specific project
"Find Docker setup in claude-self-reflect project"
```

### Migration Guide:
If you're upgrading from v2.4.2 or earlier:
1. Your conversations remain fully searchable
2. Default searches now return project-specific results
3. Add "all projects" to queries for cross-project search
4. See [Project-Scoped Search Guide](project-scoped-search.md) for details

## 🚀 Real-Time Import Watcher

New in v2.4.x: Conversations are imported automatically every 60 seconds.

- No manual imports needed
- Runs quietly in the background
- Handles both local and cloud embeddings
- Automatically recovers from errors

## 🔒 Privacy-First Local Embeddings

Starting with v2.3.7, we default to **100% local embeddings**:

- Your conversations never leave your machine
- No API keys required for basic functionality
- FastEmbed with sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2
- Optional cloud mode available for enhanced accuracy

## 🛠️ Enhanced Reliability

### Improved Error Handling:
- Exponential backoff for API calls
- Automatic retry with smart delays
- Better error messages and recovery
- Health checks for all services

### Data Safety:
- Docker volumes persist across updates
- Automatic backups before migrations
- Safe rollback procedures
- Data integrity validation

## 📊 Performance Improvements

- **Search Speed**: 100ms faster with project scoping
- **Import Speed**: Streaming imports handle large files efficiently
- **Memory Usage**: Optimized for conversations with 100k+ messages
- **Startup Time**: Docker Compose parallelizes service initialization

## 🎯 What's Next

We're actively working on:
- Selective project import (#14)
- Enhanced search UI
- Performance analytics dashboard
- Multi-language support

## 🔧 Critical Fix: Local Mode (v2.4.7)

We've just released v2.4.7 with an important fix for local mode users:

### The Issue:
- Setup wizard was using an outdated server module
- Local mode (`--local` flag) still required Voyage API key
- Affected users who wanted to use FastEmbed local embeddings

### The Fix:
- Corrected server module selection in setup wizard
- Local embeddings now work properly without any API key
- Removed obsolete code that caused the issue

### Affected Users:
If you experienced "Voyage AI API key not configured" errors when using `--local` mode, please update to v2.4.7.

## 💬 We Want Your Feedback

These changes represent our vision for making Claude Self-Reflect more intuitive and reliable. We'd love to hear:

1. How has the Docker setup improved your experience?
2. Is project-scoped search helpful or disruptive?
3. What features would you like to see next?
4. Any issues or edge cases we should address?

Join the discussion in our [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/ramakay/claude-self-reflect/discussions) or open an issue.

## 🙏 Thank You

To our growing community of contributors and users - thank you for your feedback, bug reports, and patience as we improve Claude Self-Reflect. Special thanks to:

- [@TheGordon](https://github.com/TheGordon) - Timestamp parsing fix and project import feature request
- [@akamalov](https://github.com/akamalov) - Ubuntu WSL bug identification
- [@kylesnowschwartz](https://github.com/kylesnowschwartz) - Comprehensive security review

Your input directly shapes the future of this project.

---

**Ready to upgrade?** 

```bash
npm update -g claude-self-reflect
claude-self-reflect setup
```

The future of conversation memory is here, and it's more powerful than ever.
