docs/api-reference.md, before:

# API Reference

This document describes the MCP (Model Context Protocol) tools available in Claude Self-Reflect.

## Overview

Claude Self-Reflect provides two main MCP tools that enable Claude to search past conversations and store insights for future reference. These tools are automatically available in Claude Code after installation.

## Available Tools

### `reflect_on_past`

Search for relevant past conversations using semantic search with optional time-based memory decay.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `query` | string | required | The search query to find semantically similar conversations |
| `limit` | integer | 5 | Maximum number of results to return |
| `min_score` | float | 0.7 | Minimum similarity score (0-1) |
| `use_decay` | integer/string | -1 | Apply time-based decay: 1=enable, 0=disable, -1=use environment default |

#### Usage Examples

```javascript
// Basic search
mcp__claude-self-reflect__reflect_on_past({
  query: "debugging React hooks"
})

// Search with more results
mcp__claude-self-reflect__reflect_on_past({
  query: "database optimization",
  limit: 10
})

// Search with higher similarity threshold
mcp__claude-self-reflect__reflect_on_past({
  query: "authentication implementation",
  min_score: 0.8
})

// Force enable memory decay
mcp__claude-self-reflect__reflect_on_past({
  query: "recent bugs",
  use_decay: 1
})

// Disable memory decay for historical search
mcp__claude-self-reflect__reflect_on_past({
  query: "project architecture decisions",
  use_decay: 0
})
```

#### Return Value

Returns a JSON string containing an array of search results. Each result includes:

```json
{
  "id": "unique_point_id",
  "score": 0.85,
  "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z",
  "role": "assistant",
  "excerpt": "The conversation content...",
  "project_name": "my-project",
  "conversation_id": "abc123",
  "collection_name": "conv_12345678_voyage"
}
```

### `store_reflection`

Store an important insight or reflection for future reference.

**Note**: This tool is currently in development. It acknowledges storage but doesn't persist data yet.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `content` | string | required | The insight or reflection to store |
| `tags` | array[string] | [] | Tags to categorize this reflection |

#### Usage Examples

```javascript
// Store a simple reflection
mcp__claude-self-reflect__store_reflection({
  content: "Using React.memo significantly improved render performance in the dashboard"
})

// Store with tags
mcp__claude-self-reflect__store_reflection({
  content: "JWT tokens with 15-minute expiry provide good security/UX balance",
  tags: ["authentication", "security", "jwt"]
})

// Store debugging solution
mcp__claude-self-reflect__store_reflection({
  content: "Fixed memory leak by clearing event listeners in useEffect cleanup",
  tags: ["bug-fix", "react", "memory-leak"]
})
```

#### Return Value

Returns a confirmation message:
```
"Reflection stored successfully with tags: authentication, security, jwt"
```

## Configuration

The behavior of these tools can be configured through environment variables:

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `VOYAGE_KEY` | optional | Your Voyage AI API key for cloud embeddings |
| `PREFER_LOCAL_EMBEDDINGS` | true | Use local embeddings (no API key needed) |
| `QDRANT_URL` | http://localhost:6333 | URL of your Qdrant instance |
| `ENABLE_MEMORY_DECAY` | false | Enable time-based memory decay globally |
| `DECAY_WEIGHT` | 0.3 | Weight of decay factor in scoring (0-1) |
| `DECAY_SCALE_DAYS` | 90 | Half-life for memory decay in days |
| `USE_NATIVE_DECAY` | false | Use Qdrant's native decay (experimental) |

### Setting Environment Variables

1. **In `.env` file** (recommended):
   ```bash
   VOYAGE_KEY=your-api-key-here
   QDRANT_URL=http://localhost:6333
   ENABLE_MEMORY_DECAY=true
   DECAY_SCALE_DAYS=60
   ```

2. **When adding MCP to Claude**:
   ```bash
   claude mcp add claude-self-reflect "/path/to/run-mcp.sh" \
     -e VOYAGE_KEY="your-key" \
     -e ENABLE_MEMORY_DECAY="true"
   ```

## Memory Decay

Memory decay helps prioritize recent conversations over older ones, mimicking human memory patterns.

### How It Works

When enabled, the search scoring combines:
- **Semantic similarity**: How well the content matches your query
- **Time decay**: How recent the conversation is

The formula: `adjusted_score = similarity_score + (decay_weight * e^(-age/scale))`

### Decay Examples

With default settings (90-day half-life, 0.3 weight):
- Today's conversation: +0.30 boost
- 1 week old: +0.28 boost
- 1 month old: +0.22 boost
- 3 months old: +0.15 boost
- 6 months old: +0.08 boost
- 1 year old: +0.03 boost

### When to Use Decay

**Enable decay for**:
- Finding recent bug fixes
- Current project context
- Latest implementation details
- Recent decisions

**Disable decay for**:
- Historical architecture decisions
- Long-term project knowledge
- Reference implementations
- Best practices documentation

## Error Handling

Common errors and their meanings:

### API Errors

| Error | Cause | Solution |
|-------|-------|----------|
| "Voyage AI API key not configured" | Missing API key | Set VOYAGE_KEY environment variable |
| "Collection not found" | No conversations imported | Run import script first |
| "Rate limit exceeded" | Too many API calls | Wait and retry with smaller batches |

### Connection Errors

| Error | Cause | Solution |
|-------|-------|----------|
| "Connection refused" | Qdrant not running | Start Qdrant with Docker |
| "Timeout" | Slow network/large query | Increase timeout or reduce query size |

## Best Practices

1. **Query Construction**
   - Be specific but not overly narrow
   - Include relevant technical terms
   - Use natural language

2. **Score Thresholds**
   - 0.7-0.8: Good for general searches
   - 0.8-0.9: For precise matches
   - <0.7: When exploring broadly

3. **Result Limits**
   - 5-10: For focused searches
   - 10-20: For exploration
   - >20: Rarely needed, may be slow

4. **Performance Tips**
   - Cache frequently used queries
   - Use appropriate score thresholds
   - Limit search scope when possible

## Integration Examples

### In Claude Code

When Claude receives a question about past work:

```
User: "What was that PostgreSQL optimization we did?"

Claude uses: reflect_on_past({
  query: "PostgreSQL optimization performance",
  limit: 5
})

Claude: "I found our conversation from December 15th where we discovered 
that adding a GIN index on the metadata JSONB column reduced query time 
from 2.3s to 45ms."
```

### Automated Workflows

Future possibilities (not yet implemented):
- Auto-store insights after problem solving
- Weekly summaries of key decisions
- Project knowledge extraction

## Limitations

1. **Search Scope**: Currently searches all projects (no project filtering)
2. **Storage**: `store_reflection` not yet persistent
3. **Performance**: Large conversation histories may be slow
4. **Context**: Limited to conversation text (no code analysis)

## Future Enhancements

Planned improvements:
- Project-specific search filtering
- Persistent reflection storage
- Code snippet extraction
- Conversation threading
- Multi-modal search (images, code)
- Export capabilities

For the latest updates, see the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ramakay/claude-self-reflect).

Commit message:

docs: emphasize local-first approach and clean up tracked files
- Update all documentation to present local embeddings as default
- Show cloud mode (Voyage AI) as optional enhancement
- Remove organization-log.json and .DS_Store from tracking
- Update .gitignore to prevent re-addition
- Clarify which features require cloud mode
- Update architecture diagrams and examples
- Add local embedding troubleshooting
- Update import script references to unified version

docs/api-reference.md, after:

# API Reference

This document describes the MCP (Model Context Protocol) tools available in Claude Self-Reflect.

## Overview

Claude Self-Reflect provides two main MCP tools that enable Claude to search past conversations and store insights for future reference. These tools are automatically available in Claude Code after installation.

## Available Tools

### `reflect_on_past`

Search for relevant past conversations using semantic search with optional time-based memory decay.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `query` | string | required | The search query to find semantically similar conversations |
| `limit` | integer | 5 | Maximum number of results to return |
| `min_score` | float | 0.7 | Minimum similarity score (0-1) |
| `use_decay` | integer/string | -1 | Apply time-based decay: 1=enable, 0=disable, -1=use environment default |

#### Usage Examples

```javascript
// Basic search
mcp__claude-self-reflect__reflect_on_past({
  query: "debugging React hooks"
})

// Search with more results
mcp__claude-self-reflect__reflect_on_past({
  query: "database optimization",
  limit: 10
})

// Search with higher similarity threshold
mcp__claude-self-reflect__reflect_on_past({
  query: "authentication implementation",
  min_score: 0.8
})

// Force enable memory decay
mcp__claude-self-reflect__reflect_on_past({
  query: "recent bugs",
  use_decay: 1
})

// Disable memory decay for historical search
mcp__claude-self-reflect__reflect_on_past({
  query: "project architecture decisions",
  use_decay: 0
})
```

#### Return Value

Returns a JSON string containing an array of search results. Each result includes:

```json
{
  "id": "unique_point_id",
  "score": 0.85,
  "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z",
  "role": "assistant",
  "excerpt": "The conversation content...",
  "project_name": "my-project",
  "conversation_id": "abc123",
  "collection_name": "conv_12345678_local"  // or _voyage for cloud mode
}
```

### `store_reflection`

Store an important insight or reflection for future reference.

**Note**: This tool is currently in development. It acknowledges storage but doesn't persist data yet.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `content` | string | required | The insight or reflection to store |
| `tags` | array[string] | [] | Tags to categorize this reflection |

#### Usage Examples

```javascript
// Store a simple reflection
mcp__claude-self-reflect__store_reflection({
  content: "Using React.memo significantly improved render performance in the dashboard"
})

// Store with tags
mcp__claude-self-reflect__store_reflection({
  content: "JWT tokens with 15-minute expiry provide good security/UX balance",
  tags: ["authentication", "security", "jwt"]
})

// Store debugging solution
mcp__claude-self-reflect__store_reflection({
  content: "Fixed memory leak by clearing event listeners in useEffect cleanup",
  tags: ["bug-fix", "react", "memory-leak"]
})
```

#### Return Value

Returns a confirmation message:
```
"Reflection stored successfully with tags: authentication, security, jwt"
```

## Configuration

The behavior of these tools can be configured through environment variables:

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `VOYAGE_KEY` | optional | Your Voyage AI API key (only for cloud mode) |
| `PREFER_LOCAL_EMBEDDINGS` | true | Use local embeddings by default (no API needed) |
| `QDRANT_URL` | http://localhost:6333 | URL of your Qdrant instance |
| `ENABLE_MEMORY_DECAY` | false | Enable time-based memory decay globally |
| `DECAY_WEIGHT` | 0.3 | Weight of decay factor in scoring (0-1) |
| `DECAY_SCALE_DAYS` | 90 | Half-life for memory decay in days |
| `USE_NATIVE_DECAY` | false | Use Qdrant's native decay (experimental) |

### Setting Environment Variables

1. **In `.env` file** (recommended):
   ```bash
   VOYAGE_KEY=your-api-key-here
   QDRANT_URL=http://localhost:6333
   ENABLE_MEMORY_DECAY=true
   DECAY_SCALE_DAYS=60
   ```

2. **When adding MCP to Claude**:
   ```bash
   claude mcp add claude-self-reflect "/path/to/run-mcp.sh" \
     -e VOYAGE_KEY="your-key" \
     -e ENABLE_MEMORY_DECAY="true"
   ```

## Memory Decay

Memory decay helps prioritize recent conversations over older ones, mimicking human memory patterns.

### How It Works

When enabled, the search scoring combines:
- **Semantic similarity**: How well the content matches your query
- **Time decay**: How recent the conversation is

The formula: `adjusted_score = similarity_score + (decay_weight * e^(-age/scale))`

### Decay Examples

With default settings (90-day half-life, 0.3 weight):
- Today's conversation: +0.30 boost
- 1 week old: +0.28 boost
- 1 month old: +0.22 boost
- 3 months old: +0.15 boost
- 6 months old: +0.08 boost
- 1 year old: +0.03 boost

### When to Use Decay

**Enable decay for**:
- Finding recent bug fixes
- Current project context
- Latest implementation details
- Recent decisions

**Disable decay for**:
- Historical architecture decisions
- Long-term project knowledge
- Reference implementations
- Best practices documentation

## Error Handling

Common errors and their meanings:

### API Errors

| Error | Cause | Solution |
|-------|-------|----------|
| "Voyage AI API key not configured" | Missing API key (cloud mode) | Set VOYAGE_KEY environment variable or use local mode |
| "Collection not found" | No conversations imported | Run import script first |
| "Rate limit exceeded" | Too many API calls | Wait and retry with smaller batches |

### Connection Errors

| Error | Cause | Solution |
|-------|-------|----------|
| "Connection refused" | Qdrant not running | Start Qdrant with Docker |
| "Timeout" | Slow network/large query | Increase timeout or reduce query size |

## Best Practices

1. **Query Construction**
   - Be specific but not overly narrow
   - Include relevant technical terms
   - Use natural language

2. **Score Thresholds**
   - 0.7-0.8: Good for general searches
   - 0.8-0.9: For precise matches
   - <0.7: When exploring broadly

3. **Result Limits**
   - 5-10: For focused searches
   - 10-20: For exploration
   - >20: Rarely needed, may be slow

4. **Performance Tips**
   - Cache frequently used queries
   - Use appropriate score thresholds
   - Limit search scope when possible

## Integration Examples

### In Claude Code

When Claude receives a question about past work:

```
User: "What was that PostgreSQL optimization we did?"

Claude uses: reflect_on_past({
  query: "PostgreSQL optimization performance",
  limit: 5
})

Claude: "I found our conversation from December 15th where we discovered 
that adding a GIN index on the metadata JSONB column reduced query time 
from 2.3s to 45ms."
```

### Automated Workflows

Future possibilities (not yet implemented):
- Auto-store insights after problem solving
- Weekly summaries of key decisions
- Project knowledge extraction

## Limitations

1. **Search Scope**: Currently searches all projects (no project filtering)
2. **Storage**: `store_reflection` not yet persistent
3. **Performance**: Large conversation histories may be slow
4. **Context**: Limited to conversation text (no code analysis)

## Future Enhancements

Planned improvements:
- Project-specific search filtering
- Persistent reflection storage
- Code snippet extraction
- Conversation threading
- Multi-modal search (images, code)
- Export capabilities

For the latest updates, see the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ramakay/claude-self-reflect).
